[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
nagamonchetti and
charlie state our headlines today after
weeks of tension
the uk and eu edge closer to resolving a
row
over vaccine supplies i know that
there's some tension of course
which is normal but as long as we will
have transparency
and as we will be able to understand i
think i things
will be able to be normalized
pub landlords could be allowed to ask
customers for proof they've been
vaccinated before allowing them into
their premises
what's the future for cash good morning
the new 50 pound note will be revealed
on breakfast later but million
millions of us are living virtually cash
free we look at what's on the new note
and why it matters
good morning from me and from tom jerry
and ben
three alpacas who live in the heart of
london and for 50 years
city farms have been bringing wildlife
into urban areas during the pandemic
they've been doing
a lot more as well we'll have more a
little later
good morning it's defeat for wales in
the end in their first world cup
qualifier but they did take the lead and
then belgium was just too strong
with kevin de bruyne on target for the
number one ranked team in the world
good morning for the next few days we're
looking at sunshine and showers
as it's going to be colder tomorrow some
of the showers will be wintry
mostly in higher ground and at times
it's also going to be windy but i'll
have
all the details coming up later in the
[Music]
programme
morning it's thursday the 25th of march
our top story is that the uk
and the european union have taken a step
towards resolving a dispute over access
to covert vaccines as eu leaders prepare
to vote on controversial plans to
restrict
exports the two sides say they're
working on a win-win solution after the
eu blamed its slow rollout
on the pharmaceutical firm astrazeneca
not delivering enough doses our
correspondent john
donason has more
the vaccine row between the uk and the
eu has been rumbling on for months
but it's intensified with many countries
on the continent
now facing a third wave amid concerns
over vaccine supply
and a slow roll out of the jab in a
joint statement last night
the eu and the uk said they were working
on ways to better cooperate over
vaccines
so could an end to the acrimony be in
sight this is
very positive news what we want to see
is we want to see vaccines flowing
freely around the world we want to work
to build capacity so that we can make
sure that everybody gets vaccinated
including the uk
the eu and of course many developing
countries because we're only going to
tackle
coronavirus by making sure everybody
gets vaccinated so this is a very
positive step forward eu leaders will
meet via video conference today to
discuss ways
of boosting vaccine supplies and
possible new restrictions on vaccine
exports
including doses of the astrazeneca jab
which could impact the uk
the point is astrazeneca is fulfilling
its contracts in the uk
and is not fulfilling its contracts in
the european union and they are
exporting
um vaccination material from
the eu to the uk and not fulfilling the
duties that they have within the
european union and i think it's just
natural that the european union has to
react to this
but some health officials have accused
european leaders of sending out
confusing messages over astrazeneca
by questioning the vaccine's efficiency
and safety
which has led to poor uptake of the jab
on the continent
with many eu voters angry at their
governments over ongoing lockdowns and
frustrated with vaccine rollouts that
lag
far behind the uk there is a political
blame game underway
you cannot wrap a flag around a vaccine
in this modern world it just doesn't
work that way
these are integrated supply chains and
any attempt to
impose any barriers whatsoever will
disadvantage everybody involved
in other words so-called vaccine
nationalism might be understandable
but not helpful with a pandemic that's
global
john donason bbc news
pub landlords could be allowed to refuse
entry to customers who can't prove
they've had a coronavirus vaccine the
review
is looking to measure as a lockdown is
eased and the prime minister said the
decision could be left to individual
landlords
some conservative mps have criticized
the idea with one calling it a ghastly
trap
nhs england is urging the over 50s and
anyone
in the vaccine priority groups to book
their cover jab before
expected delays in supply the national
medical director professor stephen
powers says
anyone who qualifies for a vaccine but
hasn't yet received a first dose
should book an appointment in the next
few days vaccine supply will slow down
in april
meaning efforts will then focus on
delivering second
doses scientists have launched a study
to see if two drugs which are already
available
could be used to reduce deaths from
so-called long-covered the cambridge-led
trial also aims to cut the number of
people who were readmitted to hospital
following treatment for coronavirus our
science correspondent richard wescott
has more
covid has put nearly half a million uk
people in hospital so far
most survive but the disease doesn't
relinquish its grip
just because they've been discharged
ambulance driver nigel's been nicknamed
the miracle man by his doctors
after nearly dying from the disease last
summer
[Music]
[Applause]
leaving hospital was a high point but
months later
he's still suffering i can't walk very
far but um
i do my best upper body strength where i
used to have that i haven't got that
anymore
you tire easy don't you have an
afternoon nap yeah
you've got your stomach problem yeah uh
ulcerative colitis yeah
the mental health ptsd side of it
mood swings i had covered i still have
these lots of smell
but to me that's nothing i don't class
that as long covered that's just there
it is
this is long covered because it's
affecting his life
this increasingly common long-term
damage is why cambridge researchers
are launching a new uk-wide drugs trial
led by a doctor who pushed through all
the paperwork and raised the money
in between shifts on intensive care hi
charlotte how are you
they'll be recruiting discharge patients
to try
two common drugs the apixaban drug is a
clot-busting
drug and we know that people who have
coronavirus infection are increased risk
of getting blood clots in their lungs
and their legs
so it's to try and target that in the
post-hospital phase
and then atorvastatin is a
cholesterol-lowering drug
one of the really important things about
these two particular dogs is they're
relatively cheap
they're easy to take because they're
tablets and they're widely available
a large study found that for every 10
people
discharged from hospital after covid
within six months
three will be readmitted and one will
die
finding treatments to cut those numbers
could change
thousands of lives richard wescott bbc
news
clacton in essex nhs staff in scotland
are to be offered a pay rise of at least
four percent
the scottish government confirmed that
nurses paramedics
and domestic staff are among those who
could receive the boost to their
salaries
earlier this month prime minister boris
johnson defended plans to give some nhs
staff in england
a 1 increase the national stalking
helpline says it's seen a 10 increase in
calls since the pandemic began
with around 20 000 people contacting the
charity over the past
year many have reported cyber stalking
and the use of tracking devices
one victim has been speaking to the
bbc's emma glasby
i'm never somebody that suffered from
anxiety it's not
something that's impacted me but it
crippled me at times
i felt incredibly vulnerable i live
remotely and i'm on my own
i just lived every day wondering what
they might be capable of next
when she ended her relationship her ex
refused to accept it
becky not her real name was then
bombarded with messages and made to feel
like a prisoner
in her home i just kept seeing him
everywhere that i went
i was driving along the road he would
nearly always be coming in the opposite
direction
if i left the gym he'd be outside
driving past
she took her car to the garage and a
mechanic discovered a tracker device
fitted underneath i started shaking i
knew immediately
that it was him all of those events just
fell into place
how he knew where i was in the crime
survey for england and wales 1 in 20
women and 1 in
50 men said they'd experienced stalking
in the past year
the national stalking helpline has seen
a 10 increase in call
since the pandemic began with almost 20
000 people
contacting the charity since the first
lockdown
victims have explained to us how they
feel like sitting ducks
um waiting for an incident to occur
because they're not
able to do normal things that they might
do every day like varying their
their routines and particularly that
cyber stalking component
this invasion of every facet of their
lives
and that's something that trauma that
they've experienced during the lockdown
that we're going to be supporting them
unfortunately for some time to come
becky stalker pleaded guilty in january
and was jailed for two and a half years
but it's an ordeal that's left a lasting
impact on her business her friendships
and her sense of feeling safe and secure
emma glasbee bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news